{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17763}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang7 Report of Referee A -- LC17151/Unden\par
----------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
Emergence of classicality from unitary quantum dynamics is our\par
manifold qualitative experience and Quantum Darwinism (QD) is an\par
attempt to define emergent classicality, and to quantify its quality.\par
By its very nature, QD requests a very large number of environmental\par
degrees of freedom which means that both the analytic calculation of\par
their dynamics and the experimental confirmation of the presence of QD\par
are difficult, or even impossible in natural situations. This may\par
motivate the authors to use a laboratory toy-model, reduced to one\par
electronic spin in NV and a few (4) environmental nuclear spins, under\par
their natural hyperfine interaction that is calculable analytically.\par
This is apparently the largest natural system accessible to full\par
laboratory control by implementing a new protocol of Dynamical\par
Decoupling proposed theoretically just in recent works. The authors\par
confirm "QD in action", in quantitative accordance with analytically\par
calculated 1-, 2-, 3- and 4-nuclear-spin Holevo-entropies --- on a\par
real system which is but a toy-model! See my subsequent criticism\par
later.\par
\par
One obvious merit of the present work is the successful implementation\par
of the adapted XY8 protocol. It is a pity that the precision (e.g.\par
fidelity) of the method is not discussed explicitly. We learn about\par
the precision in terms of the Holevo-entropies only. Most elements of\par
the experiment are beyond my expertise. According to the Editor's\par
suggestion, my report does not further concern them.\par
\par
The theoretical merit, claimed by the Abstract, is the "laboratory\par
verification of the objective classical world" emerging from the\par
quantum. In conclusion, the authors claim to have shown that emergent\par
"objective classical systems", as defined by QD, exist [] in "small\par
environments". This, I'm afraid, is incorrect. First, because - to my\par
best knowledge - QD requests a l a r g e n u m b e r of environmental\par
subsystems each sharing the same information about the central system.\par
One can not interpret "proliferation of information" over a "small\par
environment". The full-scale phenomenon (emergence of classicality a\par
la DW) never happens in a small environment. It is misleading to claim\par
the objective classicality of the NV-center even in a perfect 1+4-spin\par
GHZ state.\par
\par
The authors verified experimentally the e l e m e n t s that, in large\par
environments, create classicality. Or, in their own words: they showed\par
"QD in action" - in a toy real system. This pedantic distinction is\par
important for the readers. For them, classicality can never be be\par
reversed into the initial superposition. This is equally so in all\par
alternative theories of classicality like standard collapse,\par
spontaneous collapse, environmental decoherence. QD is a smart\par
refinement of the latter, I don't think that the classicality a la QD\par
can ever be stated in "small environments" - where the initial\par
superposition is recoverable by "small" efforts.\par
\par
I wonder if a revised main text contains the 4 parallel couplings (now\par
in SI), leading to the following approximate periods in microsecs: 10,\par
20, 20, 40. Guess that cca t=15 is (14.7 in the ms) yields the best\par
classicality although spin 1 contains no information, so proliferation\par
is defective. Then t=20 might give the worst classicality, since all\par
spins return to their initial states. Fig. 3c confirms this for the\par
single spin environment; 2-3-4 spins contain more and more information\par
respectively (this does not fit to my phenomenology, I must admit).\par
The case t=10 is symptomatic, spin 4 performs its maximum, the other\par
three are completely useless, "proliferation" fails again.\par
\par
This work is an important achievement to control a small real\par
environment of a real spin in order to demonstrate the onset of QD\par
which, on large scale environments creates classicality. It is,\par
contrary to the authors summary, not the verification of classicality\par
in small systems which is an incorrect concept itself. A simple\par
retuning of the interpretation, in the spirit of my comments, of the\par
ms makes it suitable for publication in PRL - provided the\par
experimental part, too, is found suitable by expert reviewer(s).\par
\par
----------------------------------------------------------------------\par
Report of Referee B -- LC17151/Unden\par
----------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
This paper reports a very sophisticated experiment on the sharing of a\par
coherent state initially confined to a single diamond color center to\par
a surrounding spin bath. The results are important and likely to be of\par
interest to a large audience because it represents, as the authors\par
point out, a fundamental investigation of the transition from the\par
coherent quantum regime to the larger incoherent classical regime. The\par
experimental method is ingenious and likely to be applicable to other\par
quantum systems in the solid state where a qubit is coupled to other\par
spins in the local environment that acts to decohere the qubit.\par
\par
The paper is very well written and, in my opinion, contains much that\par
will be accessible to researchers outside the diamond N-V- color\par
center community. However, there are a few places where some\par
additional assistance is warranted.\par
\par
Abstract: The term \ldblquote evolving naturally\rdblquote  is used. However, the meaning\par
of this term is not clear to me. I expect that the authors mean that\par
the N-V\f1\emdash quantum state evolves without any engineered electromagnetic\par
perturbations apart from those contributed by the background spin bath\par
and thermal reservoir of the natural isotope crystal lattice\par
environment. This should be made clear.\par
\par
First paragraph: The term \ldblquote Quantum Darwinism\rdblquote  is perhaps a popular\par
topic in advanced level quantum mechanics or philosophy classes,\par
however many readers may not be completely familiar with the concept.\par
The impact of the paper could be increased if a very short description\par
of the concept is included, especially to define what is meant by a\par
\ldblquote pointer state\rdblquote  in this context. A reference could be inserted after\par
the first mention of \ldblquote pointer state\rdblquote  in the text.\par
\par
Fig 1: This is a very nice diagram but does not convey the fact that\par
the four spins shown interacting with the central spin will have very\par
different interaction strengths depending on their distance and\par
crystallographic orientation relative to the central spin. This fact\par
is important to the experimental method and could be mentioned in the\par
caption.\par
\par
Page 2 paragraph 1: The use of the term \ldblquote weird\rdblquote  in the context of\par
quantum superposition is not clear. I question if this word is\par
appropriate. To a practitioner in the field there is nothing \ldblquote weird\rdblquote\par
happening. I recommend using a different expression to make the\par
meaning clear. Perhaps the authors mean \ldblquote fundamentally non-classical\par
quantum superposition of states\rdblquote ?\par
\par
Page 2 paragraph 3: This paragraph is dense with jargon that may\par
obscure the essential physics to the non-specialist reader. I believe\par
the paper could have more impact if a few additional words of\par
explanation, or a suitable reference, are provided to expand on the\par
use of the terms \ldblquote Holevo quantity\rdblquote , the concept of \ldblquote quantum discord\rdblquote\par
and \ldblquote classical objectivity\rdblquote .\par
\par
Page 2 second column: Here the authors discuss the physical mechanisms\par
for coupling of the central spin with the spin bath provided by what\par
turns out to be the 13-C nuclear spins in the environment. It is my\par
understanding that prior to measurement, the coherence of the central\par
spin becomes shared by the surrounding nuclear spins while maintaining\par
an overall coherent state except that the system now consists of the\par
central spin plus the spin bath. This is therefore not decoherence as\par
such until measurements are performed on the spins in the system,\par
however the shared state represents a high entropy configuration of\par
the coherent state, the transition to which is irreversible. I\par
therefore do not understand how the single nuclear spins in the bath\par
can be considered as copies of the original central spin. Readers such\par
as myself would be grateful for a few additional words of explanation\par
here.\par
\par
Fig 2c: The \ldblquote light blue/red shaded regions\rdblquote  mentioned in the caption\par
were not visible in the manuscript presented for review.\par
\par
Page 3 second paragraph: A few additional words explaining what is\par
lost by omission of the higher harmonics would be useful along with\par
reassurance that no artifacts are introduced into the data as a\par
result.\par
\par
Page 3 second paragraph: It is not immediately clear which of the 13-C\par
nuclear spins resonant peaks from Fig 2c are selected for the\par
experiments (if I understand the text correctly), perhaps the relevant\par
peaks could be starred to make it clear. The selection criteria for\par
the selected peaks needs to be clarified. Is it just signal to noise\par
ratio? Is this in proportion to the proximity of the 13-C nuclear spin\par
to the central N-V- spin?\par
\par
Page 3 last paragraph: The expression \ldblquote natural interaction\rdblquote  is used\par
but it is not clear what is meant by this and it should be defined.\par
\par
Page 4 paragraph 3: The second sentence of his paragraph is not clear\par
and should be reworded. Do the authors mean \ldblquote The dark green data shows\par
the results when an error due to imperfect polarization and tomography\par
are corrected\rdblquote ? Then \ldblquote When errors happen \'85\rdblquote ?\par
\par
Page paragraph 4: The expression \ldblquote uptick\rdblquote  is imprecise in this context\par
and should be clarified.\par
\par
Page 4 paragraph 5: See earlier comment about the use of the word\par
\ldblquote weird\rdblquote .\par
\par
Page 4 paragraph 5: The use of the word \ldblquote dustbin\rdblquote  is not appropriate,\par
and this statement should be clarified. Perhaps the authors mean \ldblquote a\par
high entropy state\rdblquote ?\par
\par
Page 4 end of page: I believe the final sentence in this paragraph\par
makes an assertion which is too strong. Or do the authors mean that\par
gravity-induced wavefunction collapse is not necessary to explain the\par
phenomena observed here? I am not an expert on the gravitational\par
theories that involve single spin quantum systems, but for a central\par
spin fixed in proximity to a discrete spin-bath of nuclear spins then\par
surely the magnetic interaction is sufficient to explain the observed\par
decoherence as expected? Why should we expect gravity may play a role?\par
\par
Supplementary material: I note the important sample information that\par
appears in section I. The expression \ldblquote a native (un-implanted) NV\par
center\rdblquote  needs to be clarified because this is implicit context to\par
previous work by some of the co-authors that rely on ion implanted N\par
to form their N-V-centers. As pointed out above, the concept of\par
\ldblquote natural\rdblquote  or \ldblquote native\rdblquote  is not clear in this context. Perhaps the\par
authors mean \ldblquote adventitious\rdblquote  or \ldblquote introduced from residual N2 in the CVD\par
plasma from the vacuum system\rdblquote . I also believe this important detail\par
warrants inclusion in the introduction to the sample on page 1 of the\par
paper itself rather than being relegated to the SI.\f0\par
}
 